With the emergence of the Internet as a computing platform, distributed applications are being widely deployed by organizations. 
Understanding the principles/theory and the technologies underlying distributed computing and systems design is increasingly important. 
Examples of technologies supporting such deployment include JEE architecture and Web services.

This course has three major objectives. First, it is designed to introduce students to the principles underlying distributed computing 
and the design of distributed systems. Second, it aims to provide students with the opportunity to exercise these principles in the context 
of real applications by having the students use technologies such as XML, SOAP, Web services, and JEE-based application servers. 
Finally, it seeks to endow students with the capacity to analyze, design, evaluate and recommend distributed computing solutions skills 
in response to business problems.

Distributed Computing Principles

Distributed computing architectures: P2P, client server
Inter-process communication
Distributed objects and remote invocation
Naming and Name services
Time and Global State Management
Transactions and Concurrency control
Distributed Transactions
Material on principles of distributed systemsare taught from books such as Tannenbaum and Steen or the Coulouris et al. book on Distributed Systems.

Internet-enabled Distributed Computing Technologies

Application Server architectures: JEE
Extensions of the Java Distributed Object model and the DCOM component-based architectures
Web Services: WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, XML
http-based RPC combined with standards for interface definition and naming.
Discussion and application of select API’s from the API layer of the JEE architecture to illustrate distributed transactions, middleware access protocols 
(MQ Series API), and Messaging services (JMS).
The course employs project oriented teaching with implementation components to get students hands on skills with JEE frameworks.

Learning Outcomes
Describe the non-functional characteristics of distributed applications and differentiate between different types of middleware systems.
Design, implement, and deploy distributed systems using the prevalent models of web applications, web services, remote objects, and asynchronous messaging.
Understand the function and interplay of network protocols from ARP to application protocols that enable distributed systems on the Internet.
Demonstrate the technical ability to code solutions with core networking protocols. 
Program solutions to run on all ranges of devices, including mobile, desktop, and cloud-based servers.
Understand the Network File System (NFS), the Andrew File System (AFS), and the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS)
Understand the challenge of time in a distributed system, and implement a means of assessing a distributed system's state. 
Understand transactions and implement a two phase commit protocol. 
Describe the difference and similarities between symmetric key and asymmetric key cryptography.
Describe the reasoning behind each step of several cryptographic protocols including variations on Kerberos and SSL.
Demonstrate deploying containers to cloud infrastructure
Understand the problem of distributed consensus and design solutions
